---
layout: post
date: 2010-01-12 12:12:12
title: How to inStall DiskSim 3.0 in Ubuntu 6 or higher
description: "Steps to install and run disksim quickly"
tags: ubuntu, disksim, harddrive
---

<div class="cap"></div>

First of all, let me tell you it’s a hell job if you don’t know which gcc or cpp package it needs for disksim 3.0 to run. By default, ubuntu comes with gcc and cpp of version 4.4 as of today. If you want to remove the current version and put an older version, i warn you to think twice before doing it.. It might crash ur Ubuntu OS and might need to reinstall the whole OS all over again, like what I had to do twice.

<!--more-->[ ](#){: id="more"}

So, I believe if you follow these steps, it should work for you..

1. first make sure your ubuntu has build-essential , cpp and gcc package in it. To get all these three , just use :

        $ sudo apt-get install build-essential

2. now, a difficult yet must do job.. find the gcc and cpp version 2.95 that work for disksim 3.0, download .deb files of them. you can get from http://ftp.debian.org/pool/main/g/gcc-2.95/.

3. Then install : cpp-2.95, gcc-2.95, bison, flex-old (do not use flex) and indent. You must follow this order otherwise you’ll get dependency error.

4. In terminal , go to usr/bin location and make sure you have gcc2.95 and cpp 2.95 there.

5. By default, the gcc and cpp there link to gcc4.4 , you want to change that to gcc 2.95. This can be done by the following command:

first remove the gcc file

    $ rm gcc

, then

    $ ln -s gcc-2.95 gcc .

6. Now you can make under the disksim-3.0 directory , first do

        $ make clean

followed by

        $ make

you are done.

NOTE : if you want to run the FTL designed by few Koreans, u need to modify some of the files written in c++ format into c format. Need to change around 12 files.
